---
layout: post
title:  "Rails!"
date:   2015-07-21 09:10:41
categories: ruby rails
---

Today, we finally learned about Rails!  Right now, it doesn't seem so different from Sinatra.  Except more...*searching for word*

> Opinionated.  It's opinionated software. -- Sumeet

Apparently, opinionated is a technical term!

Sumeet has been laying the groundwork for this moment for a long time. A lot of his suggestions for how to organize code are now requirements of Rails.  Which we might care about more if we weren't already used to it.  (Good job, Sumeet! :)) 

But I can see that there is no way to use any of my DRY code methods anymore.  There are separate controllers per model.  There are always separate views per model in their own folder.  Each controller has a Helper.  

If things are duplicated (which it feels like they are all over the place), it feels as though that was part of the design.

Rails also handles the deployment - the Gemfile, Bundler, the config.ru, the routes file, as well as a whole bunch of folders that...

> Uh, yeah, don't worry about those for now.  --Sumeet

Well, opinionated software is usually opinionated for a reason.  I'm not used to this, but I like a solution that deploys more easily.

I'm ready!  Lemme at it!

## Update on Rails - Day 2

[Here is the code for a To-Do Application.](https://github.com/Gmfholley/07-22-ToDo-Application) Very simply, it allows authentication, tasks, and users.

I hope to add some AJAX to allow voting soon.  We'll see if I get that done. [Here is the site in action!](http://arcane-headland-8153.herokuapp.com/profile)


