---
layout: post
title:  "What's Important"
date:   2015-07-24 09:10:41
categories: life code meaning
---

I found out my cousin died last Friday.  My parents have been on vacation in Europe for a few weeks.  They have a dog.  We have cats.  So Dustin (my bf) and I have been split between our two houses, caring for the animals.

Around mid-morning my time every day, evening my parents' time, we've been getting texts and pictures of their adventures.

>Here's a lovely church.  It's the ______est church in ______.

>The walk up this hill took forever, but look at the view.

>Ice cream!

But last Friday early morning, at 3:00 am, while I was asleep in the humid house with our cats, I got a text from my mom.  Morning their time.  But she knows it's 3:00 am our time.  The morning text/call you never want to receive.

>I got this from your Aunt.  Cousin David has been missing since Sunday.  They found him in New Mexico.  He died after falling from a great height.  Details still sketchy.

*This couldn't be true*, was my very first thought. He posted on Facebook just a few days ago!

But of course, it *is* true.  No one jokes about things like this.

I slept wretchedly.  I had been starting to freak out about code last week.  But now I was freaking about...about this.  And it felt so much more weighty than all my previous problems combined.

I wanted to call everyone I knew.  I wanted to text people and say, "Are you ok?  Because something bad has already happened.  If anything's wrong, tell me.  I want all the bad news at once."

And I wanted to ask why?  Why and how?  How can this be?

Today was his funeral.  I missed Code School.  Last night, my parents, sister, and I drove across Iowa with funeral clothes in our bag.  My parents are back from vacation.  My sister actually lives far away, so it was so good to see her, even if she kicks me in the hotel bed.

Today, I saw aunts and uncles and cousins I haven't seen in several years.  I think we're all shocked.  We were all hoping it wasn't true.  And I feel so badly for my aunt and cousins, David's mother and brothers, who mourn him now.

Because you see, and I want to tell you about my cousin here, David was going on the trip of a lifetime. He was a teacher of history.  He read constantly.  When you met him by the buffet, he would turn a light conversation about the hot dogs into a search for the meaning of life.

He was always asking, "What can I do?  What should I learn?  What am I grateful for today?  Because if you have a fridge and a bed, you are doing better than 90% of humanity.  What is my purpose today?"

He traveled with a guitar and would start playing at parties in the evenings.  He wasn't a smoker but he always had a light.  At the funeral, a neighbor told the family that David had taken her to the hospital and that in return, she had taught him how to knit.

Which of course he did.  Because knitting was another piece of that panoply of knowledge he was always seeking.  And to teach was what the universe asked back from your experience.  The reason for it all.  The only reason it made sense.

He told another teacher at a conference the had chosen to teach because...
> If you are planning for one year, plant rice.
> If you are planning for ten years, plant a tree.
> IF you are planning for one hundred years, teach children.
> -- Confucius

He was planning for that one hundred years. Which meant being open to all the experiences that this planet had to offer.  And caring, often passionately and argumentatively, about the way we treated the planet and the beings on it.

When he died, he was in the middle of a Great American Road Trip, which he hoped would be a book.  Knowing him, would be as Grand in Idea as it was Broad in Thought.  A book exploring universal truths, to embiggen the heart. Of connections, to nourish the soul.

When his car was found, the supplies he'd packed for the Great American Road Trip took up the entirety of a three-car garage.  Practical items, like a case of deodorant and shampoo, rice and beans, a sleeping bag, a tent.  Spiritual items like a guitar, scads of books, notebooks and pens, dvds of TED talks.  His journey had only just begun.

David was also a victim of a mental illness.  He had bipolar disorder, and he had stopped taking his meds a few weeks before his trip.  The trip had been planned for a long time, but a few of his actions in the last few weeks reveal that he was not thinking clearly.  For example, he didn't tell his family that he was leaving; that left them thinking he was missing.  And the fall that caused his death in New Mexico was part of a hallucination brought on by his disorder.

I mention the mental illness because genius is often the twin of madness.  A vein of mental illness runs through my family.  We are all smart.  We want to be good.  But it's hard to live sometimes.  It's hard to have the will to live.  It's hard just to do the part of living that is just living, just surviving.  It is even harder to be smart and aware.  Smart and open.  Smart and giving.

That was not David's problem.  David was not going gently into the Good night.  David was not just surviving.  He was sucking to the pith and marrow.  He was devouring in great, generous nuggets.  He was giving more than he had to spare.  He was being the change we want to see in the world.

David was younger than me by a year, almost to the day.  But I wish (rather a soppy lot) that he was here in more than spirit to be the teacher to me.

I'd like to say that I have something deeply profound about my own life that I can offer to tie this story up into a neat little narrative bow.  But I don't.

What I would like to say is...

David, we miss you.

David, I am so _sorry_.

David, I will try to make my life full of meaning.

David, I will try to help people, like you would have done had you been here.

David, I will try to remember (every day, if I'm lucky) that I am grateful, that I am lucky, so lucky, and I will do something good with that luck, to help someone who isn't.

I'll leave you with David, in his own words.  His brother found 4.5 hours of audiotape that were the start of his Grand book.  They played it for us at the end of his service:

>What are you doing today?  Because...life is short.  Blink today and I'll be 40, looking at my kids.  And I'll wake up the day after that and I'm 80 with my grandchildren around me.  The time to do things is now.  So what is it you're meant to do?  We all have gifts.  Go and use them.