---
layout: post
title:  "Do the BCrypt!"
date:   2015-07-15 09:10:41
categories: bcrypt user-authentication gem security login
---

##Recap
Did I freak you out on Monday?  I may have just been freaking myself out.

*Of course*, Sumeet gave us more time! *Of course*, it is fine we are not done.  This is also a really great review of Ruby and Sinatra.  And I admit to being...not rusty exactly.  But I have forgotten details.  

I am still using my Menus to DRY up my code.  The models are built.  CRUD is working.  API requests can be returned using the right routes.  Now all I have to do is call those routes (and create any needed fields) using AJAX/DOM manipulation, instead of typing in urls.

So...still working.  [Here is my code so far.](https://github.com/Gmfholley/07-13-API-Project)


##New today - User Authentication
But Sumeet likes to push us past the horizon of our fears into the land of tomorrow.

So we also got a lecture on user authentication.  User authentication is what as users we've experienced hundreds of times.  Just...logging in to our computer.


We are also to build user authentication for our AJAX/API project, so that only logged in users can actually access it.

We are using a Gem called BCrypt.  Sumeet even confessed that he doesn't know how BCrypt works.  It is not our job to know.  It is our job to use.  Wisely.

BCrypt will convert a string into a 'Hash' (Not a Ruby Hash, but a Hash of random characters).  Every time BCrypt converts the string, the Hash will be a little different (because BCrypt throws in a random expression called a salt).  But if you as BCrypt itself, "Are these two Hashes equivalent to the same string?", it can answer yes or no.

Passwords should never, ever be saved unencrypted to a database.  

Unless you're me, today, and you're just testing your code. :)

So we're adding a user authentication layer to our API.  Only logged-in users should be able to access it.


##Fast Forward In Time - How it turned out

I was not actually done with my API project today, but this is a good place to post it.  When I'm all done, with my own login authentication module, AJAX working with complete CRUD capability, here is a video of what the UX looks like.

You might notice about me that I freak out the first day of a project.  But that it all turns around the very next day.  There's some frustration halfway through at just the sheer tedium of _realizing my ambitions_.  But it's all worth it at the end.

I am really proud of a few features of this project.  In particular, the 'coolest' parts (IMHO, to use a TWoPism):

 - I got AJAX to load the input fields for each model dynamically.  So cool!  It works for any! model!
 - On the delete page, I used AJAX to return all the objects so that I could dynamically create a select HTML element.  This means that the user can't delete something that doesn't exit.  (Assuming no two users are deleting at the same time.)
 - This all happens on one! page!

The best projects are the tough projects.  This was a really great project to get us familiar with AJAX and to allow us to build our own API.  The last time we worked on any of this was using some other API using somebody else's gem.  I feel like I understand a lot better now.

Here is a brief introduction to the final API page.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/c4SAvs3prN0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>