---
layout: post
title:  "And now for something completely different!"
date:   2015-06-30 09:10:41
categories: css
---

This week, we are taking a break from Ruby and Sinatra and the wild and wonderful world of object-oriented programming, and we're moving on to css.

Or maybe not so wild and wonderful.  Because, you see, the wild is...css.

>"You have learned a very logical, step-by-step, process.  And you've been able to progress from syntactical knowledge to best practices, like DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself), in ruby fairly quickly."
>
>"That is not true in css."
>
>"The best way I know how to teach this is...to have you do a ton of it.  So that's what we're going to do today."

CSS, for those that don't know, stands for Cascading Style Sheets.  It's what makes the web today look different from the web of the 90s, which was mostly flat surfaces, bright colors, and text, box, more text.

CSS allows the web to have the flavor of a high-end magazine or a slide show or a scrap book or a collage or piece of art.  CSS is fonts and colors and space and size and placement.  Even some animation and buttons getting darker/lighter when you hover over or click them.  It's a language that your browser is able to interpret that affects appearance.

But actually programming css is nothing like programming in ruby.  In ruby, you would define classes or methods and create instances of those objects and send and receive messages using those objects.

In css, you use your html tags, ids, and classes, and then, it's as though you write a bunch of labels, describing what they should look like.  Then you launch a browser and see all the confusing ways your browser (or your browser's defaults) have interpreted those labels.  And you attempt to fix it.

CSS, for me, is like... building a fan out of paper mache.  Building a toy car out of tinker toys.  Using a shower curtain for a dress.  It's not that it can't be done.  It just feels like you've been giving inadequate tools for the job.

Sumeet describes it as duct tape.  As long as it works!

I feel really inadequate with my roll of duct tape over here.  When I first learned ruby and models, I felt immediately like I was a painter in a previous life, and someone gave me a paint brush for the first time.  "I know what to do with these!"

So, I decided to create a flashcard game in ruby to help me learn css (the first part of our assignment) rather than (a-HEM!) actually work on css.  [So here is my flash card game](https://github.com/Gmfholley/06-29-css-flashcards).

And *here*, more importantly, is some css.  This was actually a really great assignment.  We were given [this real website](http://barcampomaha.org/), and we were supposed to recreate it to the dimensions of a mobile phone.  Sumeet gave us all the assets (pictures), and we just needed to make it look exactly like the picture.  [Here is my attempt!](https://github.com/Gmfholley/06-30-css-barcamp)

Maybe I can do this?  *crosses fingers*